---
layout: paper
title: "Xatu: Richer Neural Network Based Prediction for Video Streaming"
year: "2022"
shortref: "Nam <i>et al.</i> 2022"
nickname: "xatu"
journal: "ACM SIGMETRICS 2022"
volume: 5
issue: 3
pages: 1-26
authors: "Yun Seong Nam, Jianfei Gao, Chandan Bothra, Ehab Ghabashneh, Sanjay Rao, Bruno Ribeiro, Jibin Zhan, and Hui Zhang"
image: https://usmanjafri.github.io/isl-test-site/assets/images/papers/mrna-prot.svg
redirect_from: 
fulltext: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3491056
pdflink: https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3491056
github: https://github.com/Purdue-ISL
pmid: 
pmcid: 
f1000: 
doi: "10.1145/3491056"
dryad_doi: 
figshare_doi: 
altmetric_id: 
category: paper
# Note: 'published' is a Jekyll keyword and does not refer to whether the paper is published, but rather to whether this Markdown should be part of the rendered site.
published: true
preprint: false
embargo: false	
peerreview: true
review: false
tags: [video streaming, neural networks, ML]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Abstract 
The performance of Adaptive Bitrate (ABR) algorithms for video streaming depends on accurately predicting the download time of video chunks. Existing prediction approaches (i) assume chunk download times are dominated by network throughput; and (ii) apriori cluster sessions (e.g., based on ISP and CDN) and only learn from sessions in the same cluster. We make three contributions. First, through analysis of data from real-world video streaming sessions, we show (i) apriori clustering prevents learning from related clusters; and (ii) factors such as the Time to First Byte (TTFB) are key components of chunk download times but not easily incorporated into existing prediction approaches. Second, we propose Xatu, a new prediction approach that jointly learns a neural network sequence model with an interpretable automatic session clustering method. Xatu learns clustering rules across all sessions it deems relevant, and models sequences with multiple chunk-dependent features (e.g., TTFB) rather than just throughput. Third, evaluations using the above datasets and emulation experiments show that Xatu significantly improves prediction accuracies by 23.8% relative to CS2P (a state-of-the-art predictor). We show Xatu provides substantial performance benefits when integrated with multiple ABR algorithms including MPC (a well studied ABR algorithm), and FuguABR (a recent algorithm using stochastic control) relative to their default predictors (CS2P and a fully connected neural network respectively). Further, Xatu combined with MPC outperforms Pensieve, an ABR based on deep reinforcement learning.